README.md, before:

# ROS and Experimental Robotics

This repository gathers (most of) the pedagogical ressources used during the Sorbonne Université teaching unit called "ROS and experimental robotics", which is mainly dedicated to [ROS](https://www.ros.org/) (a software framework for Robotics) and its use in a simulated or experimental context. 
This unit is proposed in the ["Automatique, Robotique" Master]([https://www.google.com](https://sciences.sorbonne-universite.fr/formation-sciences/offre-de-formation/masters/master-automatique-robotique)), 1st year, and is common to the ["Intelligent System"](https://sciences.sorbonne-universite.fr/formation-sciences/offre-de-formation/masters/master-automatique-robotique/parcours-ingenierie-des), ["Advanced Systems and Robotics"](https://sciences.sorbonne-universite.fr/formation-sciences/offre-de-formation/masters/master-automatique-robotique/parcours-systemes) and ["Mechanical Systems for rehabilitation"](https://sciences.sorbonne-universite.fr/formation-sciences/offre-de-formation/masters/master-electronique-energie-electrique-automatique-1) paths.


## Practicals
This folder contains the source files of the LateX-generated PDF file used during the practicals sessions. An enriched version, listing all the answers of each question is also available upon request.
Ths unit is split on 3 different parts:
- **Part 1, an introduction to ROS**: this is where all the students actually discover ROS and its root concept. Students must carefully follow online tutorials, helped with a guide and a forum available on the Sorbonne Université Moodle unit page;
- **Part 2, URDF and simulations with ROS**: this is where the students start to work with [gazebo](https://gazebosim.org/), a physical simuator used to gather realistic sensorimotor data from simulations;
- **Part 3, project**: the students now work on their own, on simulation *and* with a real [turtlebot 3 burger](https://emanual.robotis.com/docs/en/platform/turtlebot3/overview/) system. They all have different challenges to reach, like navigating by following color lines, avoiding obstacles, navigating in a corridor, etc.

## Evaluation
The evaluation is made of:
- two MCQs (on Moodle); the raw files listig all the questions (and answers!) are available upon request;
- one practical exam: it is different each year; the students have to code in a limited time a ROS node with specific specifications;
- the project, which is evaluated on the simulated and experimental parts, with a special care to the code written during these sessions.

Commit message:

Update of README, exam subject and code

README.md, after:

# ROS and Experimental Robotics

This repository gathers (most of) the pedagogical ressources used during the Sorbonne Université teaching unit called "ROS and experimental robotics", which is mainly dedicated to [ROS](https://www.ros.org/) (a software framework for Robotics) and its use in a simulated or experimental context. 
This unit is proposed in the ["Automatique, Robotique" Master]([https://www.google.com](https://sciences.sorbonne-universite.fr/formation-sciences/offre-de-formation/masters/master-automatique-robotique)), 1st year, and is common to the ["Intelligent System"](https://sciences.sorbonne-universite.fr/formation-sciences/offre-de-formation/masters/master-automatique-robotique/parcours-ingenierie-des), ["Advanced Systems and Robotics"](https://sciences.sorbonne-universite.fr/formation-sciences/offre-de-formation/masters/master-automatique-robotique/parcours-systemes) and ["Mechanical Systems for rehabilitation"](https://sciences.sorbonne-universite.fr/formation-sciences/offre-de-formation/masters/master-electronique-energie-electrique-automatique-1) paths.


## Practicals
This folder contains the source files of the LateX-generated PDF file used during the practicals sessions. *An enriched version, listing all the answers of each question is also available upon request.*
The unit is split in 3 different parts:
- **[Part 1](Practicals/Part 1), an introduction to ROS**: this is where all the students actually discover ROS and its root concept. Students must carefully follow online tutorials, helped with a guide and a forum available on the Sorbonne Université Moodle unit page;
- **Part 2, URDF and simulations with ROS**: this is where the students start to work with [gazebo](https://gazebosim.org/), a physical simuator used to gather realistic sensorimotor data from simulations;
- **Part 3, project**: the students now work on their own, on simulation *and* with a real [turtlebot 3 burger](https://emanual.robotis.com/docs/en/platform/turtlebot3/overview/) system. They all have different challenges to reach, like navigating by following color lines, avoiding obstacles, navigating in a corridor, etc.

## Evaluation
The evaluation is made of:
- two MCQs (on Moodle); *the raw files listig all the questions (and answers!) are available upon request;*
- one practical exam: it is different each year; the students have to code in a limited time a ROS node with specific specifications; *the LateX subject and the code used for the two evaluations in the last two years are available in the [Evaluation/Exam](Evaluation/Exam) folder.*
- the project, which is evaluated on the simulated and experimental parts, with a special care to the code written during these sessions.

======

This teaching unit mainly relies on a pre-installed virtual machine provided by the teachers at the very beggining of the semester. A short [how-to](Practicals/Installation/indtallation.pdf) is provided to explain how to use this VM, based on a standard Ubuntu 20.04 and Ros Kinetic installation. Fur students working with macOS, an alternative installation method based on [RoboStack](https://robostack.github.io/) is proposed [in the repository](Practicals/macOS/Robostack_on_macOS.pdf)
